---
layout: snapchat-post
title: Snapchat and I
date:   2013-09-10
categories: articles
---




It's got a bright design, is frowned upon, and delivers smiles both to me and my friends... 

Snapchat has *never* been about naked photos, or risqué shots sent to a social circle for *me*. Obviously, one sees the value in such a service for those kinds of less-than-desirable acts.

I remember installing Snapchat at first because a friend wanted to share funny photos with me. I said "sure, why not" and installed the app. After a receiving a few snaps, I got in the spirit and started noticing moments where I could take a snap and send it. This "moment" is comparable to the moments where you see the perfect Instagram shot scene while out and about, or when you think of a great tweet. I'm a person that has thoughts and ideas and needs to put them somewhere, meaning I act on my thoughts quickly. I think most of us do this actually; if we think of a great tweet - why wait to post it?

I soon realized how much I enjoyed using the app. Sending silly pictures to my friends and getting sillier responses was fun. I even got my mom on it, and we send each other quick updates now and then, in situations where the photo could wait to be opened and is less intrusive than an SMS or MMS. 

A part of me feels like it's wrong to really enjoy something that so many people spew hate on. I feel like I can't be caught dead saying the word "SnapChat" without being looked at like an immature young person.

The truth is that the power of easy visual communication for me is worth it. It's easier than forming thoughts to send a text message, and is lighter than having to send a photo. There's no editing, cropping, or filtering involved. The effortless, raw means of communication feels like a sigh of relief. Before getting my mom on Snapchat, we've never had more constant communication in the visual form. That's powerful; it's strengthening our relationship. The deliberate act of opening a message and focusing on it means that these one-to-oneish messages get more attention. It feels lighter than a text message or photo message; no frills, and can't take up more than ten seconds of one's time. 

Snapchat has made me realize what my ideal messaging solution would be, and it would look something like this:

* Private conversations with people, naturally in one place. To me this means that if by best friend Janessa Facebook messages me, and then text messages me an hour later - I want both of those messages in the same place. I want to be able to send her photos as easily as I can with snap chat.

And here are some more realistic features that I'd like to see happen in Snapchat:

* Front & Back Photos - Shapchat is all about capturing the moment for me, and so many times I've wished that I could include both my face and surroundings as well as what's going on the front of the camera. Because you can't use already taken photos, this is impossible to do.

* Saved drafts - I'm always losing snaps in the ether. I'd love for them to be saved as a draft in case the application crashes or I accidentally click out

* Unlocked photos - Because I use it for more day to day communication, I'd love to be able to send unrestricted snaps: no time limit, with the ability to save and/or share.

